---
layout: default
title: Data to Discovery
description:
---

#### What use are those crystals at the back of the drawer...?

Crystalline materials form the basis of many of the technologies we rely on, ranging from the silicon transistors powering our computers to the sugar powering us. The principal tool for determining the arrangement of atoms in a material (X-ray diffraction) was discovered just over a century ago, and in that time chemists have built up vast databases of materials which continue to grow exponentially.

In this talk, I will discuss the information that is contained within diffraction data, its impact in understanding the physical properties of materials, and how it is impacting the way chemists make new materials. In relation to my own research, I will highlight how atomic structure data can be used to discover new materials, and some of the challenges in harnessing these data.

> **James Cumby** is a lecturer in inorganic chemistry at the University of Edinburgh. He gained his PhD in materials chemistry from the University of Birmingham (2010-2014) followed by a postdoctoral research position in the Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions (CSEC) at Edinburgh. His research group is focussed on developing new materials with useful (and unusual) physical properties such as magnetism or electronic conduction, using a combination of experimental techniques and computational modelling. A particular area of interest is in using data-driven learning to predict new materials.
