---
layout: default
title: Data to Discovery
description:
---

#### How sleep-deprivation at synchrotrons advances plate tectonics

X-ray microtomography is an imaging technique that enables reconstructing the internal structure of objects based on variations in x-ray absorption and phase contrast. The x-rays produced by synchrotron light sources are even bright enough to see through pressure vessels and capture changes to the internal structure of rock samples during geological processes in experiments. Time-resolved (4D) microtomography, which produces vast amounts of image data, is currently revolutionising experimental geosciences. These data allow the quantification and interpretion of grain (i.e. micron-) scale processes in rocks. Where combined with more conventional mechanical, chemical, hydraulic and thermal data, they enable significant advances in our understanding of tectonic processes. These advances are currently curtailed by our lacking ability to optimize tomographic data acquisition, streamline data processing and most importantly, mine, combine and interpret the experimental data. In this talk I will outline our group's experimental work with (synchrotron-based) 4D x-ray microtomography and describe our interfaces with data science. I will report on our current data analysis strategies and discuss our stumbling blocks in data processing and interpretation.

> **Florian Fusseis** is a Senior Lecturer in Structural Geology at the School of Geosciences, UoE. Together with Ian Butler, he runs the 4D x-ray microtomography group at the School. Florian's research interests include fluid-rock interaction and rock deformation as well as synchrotron x-ray imaging. Ian and Florian are considered pioneers in in-situ microtomography experiments at geological conditions and have studied rock deformation, reaction and fluid flow in dozens of synchrotron experiments over the past ten years.
